
Better Lasagna

Prep: 45 min Cook: 45 min Total: 1 hour 30 min Serves 10 to 12 

Nutritional Info

T1D Carbs-per-gram ratio: 0.0991

Serving Size: 254g (about 25g carbs)

* Multiply serving weight in grams by the carbs-per-gram ratio to calculate the total estimated carbs.

    Preheat oven to 375°F.
    Hearty Meat Sauce
    1 tablespoon olive oil
    Heat oil over medium heat in a large, heavy-bottomed Dutch oven until shimmering but not smoking, about 2 minutes.
    1 medium onion, chopped finely
    6 cloves garlic, minced
    Cook onion and garlic, stirring occasionally, until soft and fragrant, about 2 minutes.
    ¾ pound ground beef
    ¾ pound sweet Italian sausage, cut in half length wise and chopped
    ½ teaspoon table salt
    ½ teaspoon ground black pepper
    Add ground meats, salt, and pepper. Increase heat slightly and cook, breaking meat into small chunks with the back of a spoon or spatula, until meat is not longer raw but has not yet browned, about 4 minutes.
    ⅓ cup heavy cream
    Add cream and simmer until it reduces and only the fat remains, about 4 minutes.
    822g / 28 ounce can tomato puree
    794g / 28 ounce can diced tomatoes, drained
    Add pureed and diced tomatoes and bring to simmer, cooking until flavors have blended, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and set aside.
    Cheese Filling
    1 large egg
    In a medium bowl, whisk egg.
    425g / 15 ounces ricotta cheese (about 1 ¾ cups)
    1 cup grated Parmesan cheese
    ½ cup chopped fresh basil
    ½ teaspoon table salt
    ½ teaspoon ground black pepper
    Add ricotta, parmesan, basil, salt, and pepper to bowl and mix until combined. Set aside.
    Assembly
    255g / 9 ounces no-boil lasagna noodles
    16 ounces shredded mozzarella cheese
    reserved ricotta mixture
    reserved meat sauce
    Get noodles, cheeses, and sauce ready to assemble, following these steps:
    ¼ cup reserved meat sauce
    Coat the bottom of a 9x13 baking dish with reserved meat sauce.
    noodles, ricotta mixture, mozzarella cheese, meat sauce
    Place a layer of no-boil lasagna noodles on top of the sauce. (Number required depends on the size of your pan and size of your noodles, but you want to cover the sauce.) Smear 3 tablespoons of ricotta mixture over each noodle. Sprinkle mozzarella cheese evenly on top and then top with 1 ½ cups of reserved sauce.
    noodles, ricotta mixture, mozzarella cheese, meat sauce
    Repeat and place a layer no-boil lasagna noodles on top of the sauce. Smear 3 tablespoons of ricotta mixture over each noodle. Sprinkle mozzarella cheese evenly on top and then top with 1 ½ cups of reserved sauce.
    noodles, ricotta mixture, mozzarella cheese, meat sauce
    Repeat a third time and place a layer no-boil lasagna noodles on top of the sauce. Smear 3 tablespoons of ricotta mixture over each noodle. Sprinkle mozzarella cheese evenly on top and then top with remaining sauce.
    noodles, meat sauce
    Top final layer of sauce with any remaining noodles and cover with remaining sauce.
    remaining mozzarella cheese
    ½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
    Sprinkle cheeses evenly over assembled lasagna.
    Baking
    cooking spray
    Lightly coat a large sheet of aluminum foil with cooking spray and tightly cover baking dish.
    Bake at 375°F for 15 minutes. Remove foil and continue to bake until sauce is bubbling and cheese has browned, about 25 to 30 additional minutes.
    Remove from oven and let cool for 10 minutes. Serve with garlic bread and a salad.

From MakeBetterFood.com. Jan 11, 2013. (makebetterfood.com/recipes/better-lasagna/). Adapted from Cook's Illustrated. (September 2002.) 