
Cinnamon Pinwheels

Prep: 15 min Chill: 20 min Cook: 40 min Total: 1 hour 15 min Yields about 4 dozen cookies 

    Dough
    2 cups all-purpose flour
    Measure flour into a large bowl.
    1 teaspoon salt
    ⅔ cup vegetable shortening
    Add the salt and shortening.
    Using two dull butter knives or a pastry blender, blend the flour, salt and shortening until the shortening is the size of peas.
    8 to 10 tablespoons ice cold water
    Fill a wide-mouthed glass with ice. Add water to the top. Measure or pour the ice cold water into the flour mixture. Using a spatula or your hands, mix the water into the flour to form a large ball of dough. You may need to add an extra tablespoon of water if you have excess flour. If you added too much water, add additional flour until the dough is well formed but not too sticky. Handle and mix the dough as little as possible.
    Separate dough into two equal pieces and wrap the pieces separately in wax paper and put them in the freezer for 10 minutes or the refrigerator for 20 minutes.
    Assembly
    Preheat oven to 350°F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
    4 tablespoons butter
    Melt butter and reserve.
    ½ cup sugar
    1 ½ tablespoons cinnamon
    In a small bowl or measuring cup, whisk together sugar and cinnamon to combine. Set aside.
    flour (as needed)
    On a well floured surface, roll out one piece of chilled dough into a rectangular shape about 12' by 8'.
    2 tablespoons reserved melted butter
    Heaping ¼ cup of reserved cinnamon-sugar
    Using a pastry brush, brush melted butter evenly over the pastry. Sprinkle half of the reserved cinnamon-sugar over the melted butter and spread out evenly with a spatula.
    Roll up the dough along the short side so that you have a 12' long jellyroll.
    Using a pastry knife, cut roll into 1/2' pieces. Place pieces onto a prepared baking sheet.
    Repeat with second piece of dough, using remaining butter and cinnamon-sugar.
    Baking
    Bake at 350°F until rolls have turns golden brown, about 40 min. If using two oven racks, switch position of the baking sheets after 20 min.
    Remove from oven and let cool for 15 min. Transfer to a serving plate and sever warm or let cool until room temperature.

From MakeBetterFood.com. Aug 13, 2012. (makebetterfood.com/recipes/cinnamon-pinwheels/).
MakeBetterFood.com 
