
Pear Tarte Tatin

Prep: 1 hour Chill: 30 min Cook: 30 min Total: 2 hours Serves 8 

Nutritional Info

Carbs per serving: 62g

    Pastry
    248g / 2 cups all-purpose flour
    1 teaspoon salt
    Combine the flour and salt in a large mixing bowl.
    1 cup cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
    Add the butter and using a pastry blender, or your hands, cut and blend butter with flour until it is pea-sized pieces.
    1 egg yolk
    2 tablespoons water
    In a small bowl, whisk the egg yolk and water. Add to the flour mixture and stir until dough begins to come together. Use your hands to gently press the dough into a ball.
    Refrigerate until firm but not hard, about 30 minutes (if making ahead, let dough stand at room temperature until pliable but still cold). Do not roll out until just before the tarte Tatin's fruit is finished cooking.
    Tarte
    Preheat oven to 375°F. Position rack in bottom third of oven.
    1080g / 6 large pears, firm
    Peel the pears, cut them in half lengthwise and core them. Place in a large bowl.
    2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
    Sprinkle lemon juice over pears and toss to coat evenly. Set aside.
    144g / ¾ cup sugar
    Place the sugar in a 10-inch skillet or tarte Tatin pan over low heat. When some of the sugar begins to melt, begin stirring with a wooden spoon until all of the sugar is melted and begins to turn a pale golden color.
    Remove the pan from the heat. Arrange the pear halves in the pan spoke fashion, cut side up, with the narrow end of the pears toward the center, as close together as possible. Fill in the center with the remaining pears.
    4 tablespoons unsalted butter
    Cut the butter into small pieces and scatter over the pears.
    Place the pan over medium heat. Cook until the sugar turns a deep caramel color and the juices released from the pears are nearly evaporated, about 15 to 20 minutes. Do not stir.
    reserved pastry dough
    Roll the dough into a disc that is ¼ inch thick and slightly larger than the skillet. Cover pears and tuck in sides carefully. (Note: May have 2x dough, in which case, freeze remaining dough.)
    Bake at 375°F until the crust is golden brown, about 25 to 30 minutes. Cool for 10 minutes. Run a small, sharp knife around the edge of the tarte to loosen. Place a large plate or platter over the skillet. Holding the plate and skillet together using 2 kitchen towels, carefully but quickly invert the tarte onto the plate. Let stand a few minutes to cool slightly. Cut into wedges and serve with or creme fraiche if desired.

From MakeBetterFood.com. Dec 24, 2018. (makebetterfood.com/recipes/pear-tarte-tatin/). 